# Github-API-Visualization
A python program to create an informative visualization about the most-starred Python projects on GitHub.

# Monitoring API Rate Limits
Most APIs are rate limited, which means there’s a limit to how many requests you can make in a certain amount of time. To see if you’re approaching GitHub’s limits, enter https://api.github.com/rate_limit into a web browser. After browser loads, you will see that the information we’re interested in is the rate limit for the search API. We see that the limit is 10 requests per minute and that we have 8 requests remaining for the current minute. The reset value represents the time in Unix or epoch time (the number of seconds since midnight on January 1, 1970) when our quota will reset. If you reach your quota, you’ll get a short response that lets you know you’ve reached the API limit. If you reach the limit, just wait until your quota resets. Not Many APIs require you to register and obtain an API key to make API calls. As of this writing, GitHub has no such requirement, but if you obtain an API key, your limits will be much higher.

# More About Plotly and the GitHub API
To read more about working with Plotly charts, there are two good places to start. You can find the Plotly User Guide in Python at https://plot.ly/python/user-guide/. This resource gives you a better understanding of how Plotly uses your data to construct a visualization and why it approaches defining data visualizations in this way.
The python figure reference at https://plot.ly/python/reference/ lists all the settings you can use to configure Plotly visualizations. All the possible chart types are listed as well as all the attributes you can set for every configuration option. For more about the GitHub API, refer to its documentation at https://developer.github.com/v3/. Here you’ll learn how to pull a wide variety of specific information from GitHub. If you have a GitHub account, you can work with your own data as well as the publicly available data for other users’ repositories.

# The Hacker News API
To explore how to use API calls on other sites, let’s take a quick look at Hacker News (http://news.ycombinator.com/). On Hacker News, people share
articles about programming and technology, and engage in lively discussions about those articles. The Hacker News API provides access to data about all submissions and comments on the site, and you can use the API without having to register for a key. The given call returns information about the current top article as of this writing: https://hacker-news.firebaseio.com/v0/item/19155826.json. When you enter this URL in a browser, you’ll see that the text on the page is enclosed by braces, meaning it’s a dictionary. But the response is difficult to examine without some better formatting.

# readable_hn_data.json
The dictionary contains a number of keys we can work with. The key 'descendants' tells us the number of comments the article has received. The key 'kids' provides the IDs of all comments made directly in response to this submission. Each of these comments might have comments of their own as
well, so the number of descendants a submission has is usually greater than its number of kids. We can see the title of the article being discussed, and a URL for the article that’s being discussed as well. The given URL returns a simple list of all the IDs of the current top
articles on Hacker News: https://hacker-news.firebaseio.com/v0/topstories.json. We can use this call to find out which articles are on the home page right now, and then generate a series of API calls similar to the one we just examined.

# hn_submissions.py
Each submission on Hacker News is ranked according to an overall score based on a number of factors including how many times it’s been voted up, how many comments it’s received, and how recent the submission is. We want to sort the list of dictionaries by the number of comments. To do this, we use a function called itemgetter() which comes from the operator module. We pass this function the key 'comments', and it pulls the value associated with that key from each dictionary in the list. The sorted() function then uses this value as its basis for sorting the list. We sort the list in reverse order to place the most-commented stories first.

You would use a similar process to access and analyze information with any API. With this data, you could make a visualization showing which submissions have inspired the most active recent discussions. This is also the basis for apps that provide a customized reading experience for sites like Hacker News. To learn more about what kind of information you can access through the Hacker News API, visit the documentation page at https://github.com/HackerNews/API/.